docs/Translations.md, before:

Introduction
===
Translations are handled on [OneSky](https://oneskyapp.com/), specifically in [this project](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/collaboration/project/52710).

Adding A New Phrase
===
Setting it up in the code
---
If you add any new strings that appear in the application UI, e.g. new configuration options, then you should specify them as:

	_('Text that appears in UI')
`_()` is a special global function that then handles the translation, using its single argument, plus the configured language, to look up the appropriate text. 

If you need to specify something in the text that shouldn't be translated then use the form:

	_('Some text with a {WORD} not translated'.format(WORD='word'))
This way 'word' will always be used literally.

Next you will need to edit `L10n/en.template` to add the phrase:

	/* <use of this phrase> [<file it was first added in>] */
	"<text as it appears in the code>" = "<English version of the text>";
e.g.

	/* Successfully authenticated with the Frontier website. [EDMarketConnector.py] */
	"Authentication successful" = "Authentication successful";
which matches with:

	self.status['text'] = _('Authentication successful')    # Successfully authenticated with the Frontier website

and

	/* Help text in settings. [prefs.py] */
	"Tip: You can disable a plugin by{CR}adding '{EXT}' to its folder name" = "Tip: You can disable a plugin by{CR}adding '{EXT}' to its folder name";
which matches with:

	nb.Label(plugsframe, text=_("Tip: You can disable a plugin by{CR}adding '{EXT}' to its folder name").format(EXT='.disabled')).grid(     # Help text in settings
`{CR}` is handled in `l10n.py`, translating to a unicode `\n`.  See the code in`l10n.py` for any other such special substitutions.

Adding it to the OneSky project
---
You will, of course, need admin access to the project.  Jonathan Harris (aka Maringal, aka Otis) still handles this.  Check for this email address in github commits if you need to get in touch.

1. Copy `L10n/en.template` to `en.strings` somewhere.  It needs to be this name for OneSky to accept it as an upload.
1. In [the project](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/page/list/project/52710) click the `+` next to "Files"
	1. Select the copied `en.strings` file.
	1. **Make sure that you select "Deprecate" for the "Do you want to deprecate phrases uploaded before but not in this batch? " option.**
	1. Click the "Import files now" button.
1. Check that the new phrases are listed properly on [the phrases list](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/phrase/list/project/52710).  Use the search dialogue on the 'code text' to find them.

All project admins will get a notification of the new upload.  Now you wait for translators to work on the new/changed phrases.

Updating Translations In The Code
===
Once you have new/changed translations on OneSky you'll want to update the code to use them.

1. Navigate to the [Translation Overview](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/project/dashboard/project/52710) then click on "Download Translation" which shuld bring you to [Download](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/export/phrases/project/52710).
1. In "File format" select ".strings (iOS/MacOS)".
1. "All languages" shoudl already be selected in the "Languages filter".  If not, select it.
1. Likewise "All files" should already be selected in "File Filter".
1. Click "Export".  After a short delay you should be offered a file "EDMarketConnector.zip" for download.
1. Access the contents of this zip file, extracting *all* the files into `L10n/` in the code.
1. Rename the "en.strings" file to "en.template".
1. Commit the changes to git.

Commit message:

Document using other translations within a string
  This is useful for things like referring to the translated name of a
menu label in some other text.

docs/Translations.md, after:

Introduction
===
Translations are handled on [OneSky](https://oneskyapp.com/), specifically in [this project](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/collaboration/project/52710).

Adding A New Phrase
===
Setting it up in the code
---
If you add any new strings that appear in the application UI, e.g. new configuration options, then you should specify them as:

	_('Text that appears in UI')
`_()` is a special global function that then handles the translation, using its single argument, plus the configured language, to look up the appropriate text. 

If you need to specify something in the text that shouldn't be translated then use the form:

	_('Some text with a {WORD} not translated'.format(WORD='word'))
This way 'word' will always be used literally.

Next you will need to edit `L10n/en.template` to add the phrase:

	/* <use of this phrase> [<file it was first added in>] */
	"<text as it appears in the code>" = "<English version of the text>";
e.g.

	/* Successfully authenticated with the Frontier website. [EDMarketConnector.py] */
	"Authentication successful" = "Authentication successful";
which matches with:

	self.status['text'] = _('Authentication successful')    # Successfully authenticated with the Frontier website

and

	/* Help text in settings. [prefs.py] */
	"Tip: You can disable a plugin by{CR}adding '{EXT}' to its folder name" = "Tip: You can disable a plugin by{CR}adding '{EXT}' to its folder name";
which matches with:

	nb.Label(plugsframe, text=_("Tip: You can disable a plugin by{CR}adding '{EXT}' to its folder name").format(EXT='.disabled')).grid(     # Help text in settings
`{CR}` is handled in `l10n.py`, translating to a unicode `\n`.  See the code in`l10n.py` for any other such special substitutions.

You can even use other translations within a given string, e.g.:

	_("One or more of your enabled plugins do not yet have support for Python 3.x. Please see the list on the '{PLUGINS}' tab of '{FILE}' > '{SETTINGS}'. You should check if there is an updated version available, else alert the developer that they need to update the code for Python 3.x.\r\n\r\nYou can disable a plugin by renaming its folder to have '{DISABLED}' on the end of the name.".format(PLUGINS=_('Plugins'), FILE=_('File'), SETTINGS=_('Settings'), DISABLED='.disabled'))
	/* Popup body: Warning about plugins without Python 3.x support [EDMarketConnector.py] */
"One or more of your enabled plugins do not yet have support for Python 3.x. Please see the list on the '{PLUGINS}' tab of '{FILE}' > '{SETTINGS}'. You should check if there is an updated version available, else alert the developer that they need to update the code for Python 3.x.\r\n\r\nYou can disable a plugin by renaming its folder to have '{DISABLED}' on the end of the name." = "One or more of your enabled plugins do not yet have support for Python 3.x. Please see the list on the '{PLUGINS}' tab of '{FILE}' > '{SETTINGS}'. You should check if there is an updated version available, else alert the developer that they need to update the code for Python 3.x.\r\n\r\nYou can disable a plugin by renaming its folder to have '{DISABLED}' on the end of the name.";

Adding it to the OneSky project
---
You will, of course, need admin access to the project.  Jonathan Harris (aka Maringal, aka Otis) still handles this.  Check for this email address in github commits if you need to get in touch.

1. Copy `L10n/en.template` to `en.strings` somewhere.  It needs to be this name for OneSky to accept it as an upload.
1. In [the project](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/page/list/project/52710) click the `+` next to "Files"
	1. Select the copied `en.strings` file.
	1. **Make sure that you select "Deprecate" for the "Do you want to deprecate phrases uploaded before but not in this batch? " option.**
	1. Click the "Import files now" button.
1. Check that the new phrases are listed properly on [the phrases list](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/phrase/list/project/52710).  Use the search dialogue on the 'code text' to find them.

All project admins will get a notification of the new upload.  Now you wait for translators to work on the new/changed phrases.

Updating Translations In The Code
===
Once you have new/changed translations on OneSky you'll want to update the code to use them.

1. Navigate to the [Translation Overview](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/project/dashboard/project/52710) then click on "Download Translation" which shuld bring you to [Download](https://marginal.oneskyapp.com/admin/export/phrases/project/52710).
1. In "File format" select ".strings (iOS/MacOS)".
1. "All languages" shoudl already be selected in the "Languages filter".  If not, select it.
1. Likewise "All files" should already be selected in "File Filter".
1. Click "Export".  After a short delay you should be offered a file "EDMarketConnector.zip" for download.
1. Access the contents of this zip file, extracting *all* the files into `L10n/` in the code.
1. Rename the "en.strings" file to "en.template".
1. Commit the changes to git.
